1Q)What is Java?

Java is a object oriented, platform independent, case sensitive, strongly typed checking , 
high level , open source programming language developed by James Gosling in the 
year of 1995.

2Q)Features of Java?

1)Simple
2)Object oriented
3)Platform independent
4)Portable
5)Architecture Neutral
6)Highly secured
7)Robust
8)Multithreaded
9)Distributed
10)Dynamic

3Q)Differences betweend JDK , JRE and JVM ? 

JDK
 JDK stands for Java Development Kit.
 It is a installable software which contains compiler (javac) , interpreter (java), 
 Java virtual machine (JVM), archiever (.jar) , document generator (javadoc) and 
 other tools needed for java application development.
JRE
 JRE stands for Java Runtime Environment.
 It provides very good environment to run java applications only.
JVM
 JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.
 It is an interpreter which is used to execute our program line by line procedure


4Q)Types of classloaders in java?

We have three types of predefined classloaders.
1)Bootstrap classloader (loads rt.jar file)
2)Extension classloader (loads all the jar files from ext folder)
3)System/Application classloader(it loads .class file from classpath

5Q)Is it possible to execute java program without main methods?

Till 1.6 version it is possible to execute java program without main method
using static block. But from 1.7 version onwards it is not possible to execute
java program without main method.
ex: class A
{
static
{
System.out.println("Hello World");
System.exit(0);
}
}

6Q)What is typecasting?

Process of converting from one datatype to another datatype is called typecasting.
Typecasting can be performed in two ways.
i)Implicit typecasting
 If we want to store small value into a bigger variable then we need to use
implicit typecasting. 
 A compiler is responsible to perform implicit typecasting.
 Implicit typecasting is also known as Widening/upcasting.
ii)Explicit typecasting
 If we want to store bigger value into a smaller variable then we need to use 
 explicit typecasting. 
 A programmer is responsible to perform explicit typecasting.
 Explicit typecasting is also known as Norrowing/Downcasting

7Q)What is static import in java?

Using static import we can access static members directly.
Ex: import static java.lang.System.*;
class Test
{
public static void main(String[] args)
{
out.println("Hello World");
}
}

8Q)Which is a default package in java?
 java.lang package

9Q) What is JIT compiler
 IT is a part of a JVM which is used to increase the execution speed of our program.

10Q)How many memories are there in java?
We have five memories in java.
 1) Method area
 2) Heap
 3) JAva Stack 
 4) PC Register 
 5) Native method stack

11Q) What is native method in java?
 A Method which is developed by using some other language is called native method.

12Q) What is Garbage Collector ?
 Garbage collector is responsible to destroy unused or useless objects in java.
 There are two ways to call garbage collector in java.
 1) System.gc()
 2) Runtime.getRuntime().gc()

13Q) What is identifier?
 A name in java is called identifier.
 It can be class name, variable name, method name and label name.

14Q) What .class file contains ?
 A .class file contains byte code instructions.

15Q) Is java support access specifiers?
 Java does not support access specifiers.
 Java support access modifiers.
 1) default
 2) public 
 3) private 
 4) protected 

16Q) What is program?
 
 Program is a collection of instructions (or) Program is a set of instructions.

17Q)Types of variables in java?
 we have three types of variables in java.
 1) Instance variable
 2) Static variable 
 3) Local variable 

18Q) Types of blocks in java?
 We have three types of blocks in java.
 1) Instance block
 2) Static block
 3) Local block 

19Q)Explain main method ?

public: 
JVM wants to call this method from any where that's why main method is public.
static:
JVM wants to call this method without using object reference.
void:
Main method does not return anything to JVM.
main:
It is an identifier given to a main method.
String[] args:
It is a command line argument.
 
20Q)Is java purely object oriented or not?
 No, java will not consider as purely object oriented becauseit does not support many 
OOPS concepts like multiple inheritance, operator overloading and more ever we 
depends upon primitive datatypes which are non-objects.