Q)What is the difference between C++ and Java?

C++					Java
-----					------
It is developed by Bjarne Stroustrup.	It is developed by James Gosling.

It is a partial object oriented 	It is a purely object oriented 
programming language.			programming language.

It is a platform dependent.		It is platform independent.

Memory allocation and deallocation	Memory allocation and deallocation
will taken care by a programmer.	will taken care by a JVM.

It supports multiple inheritance.	It does not support multiple
					inheritance.

It supports pointers.			It does not support pointers.

It supports preprocessor directory(#).	It does not support preprocessor 
					directory(#).

It contains three access specifiers 	It contains four access modifiers
i.e public,private and protected.	i.e default,public,private and 
					protected.

It contains three types of loops i.e	It contains four types of loops i.e
do while loop, while loop and for loop.	do while loop, while loop, for loop
					and for each loop.


Q)What is the difference between .Net and Java?

.Net					Java
-----------				--------
It is a product of Microsoft.		It is a product of Oracle Corporation.

It is platform dependent.		It is a platform independent.

It contains less security.		It contains high security.

To develop medium scale projects we 	To develop major scale projects we 	
need to use .net.			need to use java.

It contains small set of frameworks.	It contains large set of frameworks.
ex:					ex:
ASP.net (Actice Server Pages)			Hibernate
ASP.net MVC (Model View Controller)		Spring Framework
						Spring Boot
						Microservices
						Struts
						spring cloud 
						spring security 
						and etc.

				
Q)What are the features of Java?

We have following important features in java.

1) Simple 

2) Object oriented 

3) Platform independent 

4) Portable 

5) Highly secured 

6) Architecture Neutral 

7) Robust 

8) Multithreaded 

9) Dynamic 

10) Distributed 

and etc.


Q)Who is the responsible to destroy the objects in java?

 Garbage collector 


Q)In how many ways we can call garbage collector in java?

There are two ways to call garbage collector in java.

1) System.gc()
2) Runtime.getRuntime().gc() 


Q) What is package?
Package is a collection of classes and interfaces.




















































		








